---
title: 'Instructor Notes'
---


This workshop is based on the [OSCA
tutorial](https://github.com/Bioconductor/ISMB.OSCA) that Davide Risso, Dario
Righelli, Marcel Ramos, and myself gave at the ISMB conference last year. The
tutorial is a light version of the [OSCA
book](https://bioconductor.org/books/release/OSCA/) that concentrates on
essential aspects for getting started with the book ("The OSCA book in a day").
The tutorial is in large parts a faithful copy of the OSCA book, but also adds
contents that are not (yet) covered in the OSCA book such as interoperability
with other popular single-cell analysis ecosystems and accessing data from the
Human Cell Atlas.

The learner profiles page covers the pre-requisites including the basics of
statistics, R, and molecular biology. Point this out to students in order to
help direct those missing large pieces of the foundation toward where they need
to go.

The exercises in the middle of episodes should be worked through as students
progress through the lesson unless you're really trying to fly through
everything at lightning speed.

Some episodes feature additional exercises labelled "Extension challenges" at
the end. These are generally more difficult exercises that are less about
repetition of the concepts presented in the lesson and more about critically
examining issues related to the lesson's topic. They can safely be skipped if
pressed for time, but may be useful for driving post-lesson discussion or to
provide additional learning material for more advanced students that reach the
end of the lesson faster than others.
